Connecting to a cluster in AWS (#2532)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/biganimal/release/getting_started/creating_a_cluster/01_cluster_networking.mdx

BigAnimal clusters can be exposed to client applications in two ways:

 -   **Public**: The cluster is available on the Internet.
 -   **Private**: In a private cluster, the IP address or DNS name is private to the VNet or VPC hosting your BigAnimal services. By default, it is not routable from other networks. See [Setting up your cloud infrastructure to connect to a private network cluster](../../using_cluster/02_connecting_your_cluster/#setting-up-your-cloud-infrastructure-to-connect-to-a-private-network-cluster) for details and instructions on how to properly configure routing for private clusters.

## Basic architecture

BigAnimal deploys a dedicated virtual network (VNet) in Azure or an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) in AWS to host clusters and their supporting management services. This VNet or VPC is named after the region where the cluster is deployed. 

> For example in Azure, if the cluster is deployed in the East US region, it is named `vnet-eastus`. This VNet uses IP addresses in the `10.240.0.0/16` space.

Author: reworded.

## Load balancing

BigAnimal uses the following resources for making routing decisions and distributing requests: 

### Standard SKU Load Balancer in Azure

When a cluster is created with public network access, a load balancer is created and configured with a public IP address. Once assigned, this IP address does not change unless you change the networking configuration for your cluster. The load balancer always routes to the leader of your cluster. 

Only one load balancer is typically deployed in an Azure region. BigAnimal adds more IP addresses to the existing load balancer for subsequent clusters in the Azure region.

> Every BigAnimal cluster, regardless of public or private networking status, is assigned a single DNS zone that maps to its exposed IP address, either public or private. When toggling between public and private, wait up to 120 seconds for DNS caches to flush.

Reviewer: This is true for AWS as well as Azure, correct?

Clusters can be changed from public to private and vice versa at any time. When this happens, the IP address previously assigned to the cluster is deallocated, a new one is assigned, and DNS is updated accordingly.

### Amazon Network Load Balancer in AWS. 
 

> BigAnimal creates a new load balancer for each clusters and tags it with the ckuster ID in the following format: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BigAnimal creates a new load balancer for each cluster and tags it with the cluster ID in the following format: 
```

Author: Fixed.

> service.k8s.aws/stack: default/*<cluster_ID>* (for example, service.k8s.aws/stack: default/p-c4j0jfcmp3af2ieok5eg).

Reviewer: This is a Kubernetes/AWS internal name; we should be talking about public DNS here.

Author: Does this look OK. 

Because the load balancer IP address used in AWS is dynamic, ensure that your application uses the correct DNS name to access the network load balancer of a particular cluster. In your application's AWS account, select the **Load Balancers** service, search for the load balancer with cluster ID you want to access, and use the DNS name provided in the details section to access your cluster.

Reviewer: No, this doesn't look right at all, haha. They should get the DNS name from the BigAnimal portal, not AWS.

> Because the load balancer IP address used in AWS is dynamic, ensure that your application uses the correct DNS name to access the network load balancer of a particular cluster.

Reviewer: This doesn't need to block release but there's some subtlety here that we'll need to work out. While the IP addresses are dynamic, unless I'm mistaken each zone's IP address is static. Some customers will want to know the full range of IP addresses that they _might need to connect to_, so that they can configure outbound firewall rules.

Author: @aittam Can you provide your input on this.

Reviewer 2: I think even the IP address for each zone can change, at least that is definitely the case for Application Load Balancer. They add more IPs when they scale up and remove them when they scale down. It also changes when they do maintenance. I think the only way to be sure would be to use an EIP for each AZ. Since now we have business support we can also open a ticket and ask.

## Basic architecture

When you create your first cluster in a region, BigAnimal deploys a
dedicated virtual network (VNet) in Azure or an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) in AWS to host all clusters and
supporting management services. This VNet or VPC is named after the region where the cluster is deployed. 

For example in Azure, if the cluster is deployed in the East US region, it is
named `vnet-eastus`. This VNet uses IP addresses in the
`10.240.0.0/16` space.

## Public cluster load balancing

BigAnimal uses the following resources for making routing decisions and distributing requests: 

- Standard SKU Load Balancer in Azure 
- Amazon Network Load Balancer in AWS. 

When a cluster is created with public network access, a load balancer is created and configured with a public IP
address. Once assigned, this IP address does not change unless you change the

> networking configuration for your cluster. The load balancer always routes to the leader of your cluster. 

Author: Updated this section.

> Only one load balancer is typically deployed in a Azure or AWS region. BigAnimal adds more IP addresses to the existing load balancer for subsequent public clusters in the Azure or AWS region.

Author: Updated this section.
